# Anti-poaching-of-trees

Now-a-days, there are many incidents happening about smuggling of trees like Sandalwood which are very expensive and rare in nature. Smuggling of sandalwood has created many law and order problems in India. Also, India’s economy has been greatly effected through these incidents. The main objective of our project is to deploy a system which can be used to restrict these kind of incidents like smuggling of sandalwood trees. This project design uses three different sensors namely, Flame sensor (to detect forest fires), Accelerometer (ADXL335) (to detect the inclination of tree which is being cut), DF Robot Gravity Analog Sound Level Meter (for effective detection of illegal logging of trees i.e. the sounds generated while axing the tree is sensed). Data generated from these three sensors is continuously monitored by the forest officials with the help of  BLYNK server of  IoT (Blynk is an IoT platform that allows you to build your own apps to control certain devices over the internet). With respect to the sensors, their output devices are activated through relay switch. For all these sensors, a buzzer is activated when their conditions are violated.                 
              There are numerous occurrences about pirating of trees like Sandal, Sagwan and so forth. These trees are expensive and pitiful. They are utilized in the medicinal sciences, beautifying agents. To limit their sneaking and to spare woodlands around the world some preventive estimates should be conveyed. We have built up a framework which can be utilized to limit sneaking. 
               Most fierce blazes in timberlands and forests today are brought about by individuals because of abuse of flame for change of woodlands to agrarian terrains. The goal of the task is to keep the sneaking, illicit logging and other anthropogenic exercises in the timberland. Such sort of framework can be utilized in any zone of backwoods which is exceptionally influenced by pirating and illicit cutting. There is no requirement for the watchman to travel entire woods. We can see the visuals of the considerable number of happenings in the backwoods at the base station. Accurate area of tree cutting can be found effectively as well.

